h1. *{color:#00e}Blue Sun* info

h2. Introduction

*{color:#00e}Blue Sun* is attempt at a feature rich BitTorrent tracker and index in a single Ruby on Rails application. It is still *very* new, and as such should not be used for anything critical.

The name *{color:#00e}Blue Sun* is inspired by the show "Firefly":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Firefly_(TV_series) and The Blue Sun Corporation that knows (and is seemingly responsible) for all things bad in the 'verse. This application will be _tracking_ torrents and information about them, so it seemed like a good enough fit.

h2. Purpose

The purpose of *{color:#00e}Blue Sun* is to:

# Learn more about the BitTorrent protocol.
# Write (from what I can tell) the first public tracker written in Rails.
# Hopefully make a popular project for both public and private BitTorrent tracking.

With any luck, I'll eventually reach all these goals.

h2. Licensing

*{color:#00e}Blue Sun* is available under the GNU General Public License v3:

Copyright 2011 "Jonathan Gnagy":http://over0.net/blog

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see "http://www.gnu.org/licenses/":http://www.gnu.org/licenses/.

h2. Installation

To install *{color:#00e}Blue Sun* on Linux / OS X / any other Unix-like OS:
# Install "JRuby":http://www.jruby.org/getting-started
# Install a java app server like "Tomcat":http://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-7.0-doc/setup.html, "Glassfish":http://glassfish.java.net/, "Jetty":http://www.mortbay.org/, or most others.
# Install "Solr":http://lucene.apache.org/solr/ (probably in the same app server mentioned in the previous step)
# Download the *{color:#00e}Blue Sun* source and install any missing Ruby gems.
##  @`git clone git://github.com/jgnagy/blue-sun.git`@
## @`cd blue-sun; jruby -S bundle install`@
# You may need to configure the app for your environment. Usually that means modifying:
## "config/initializers/devise.rb"
## "config/sunspot.yml"
## "config/database.yml"
# Create the *{color:#00e}Blue Sun* WAR file
## @`jruby -S rake war`@
# Create the *{color:#00e}Blue Sun* database (this should be configured in "config/database.yml"):
## @`jruby -S rake db:migrate RAILS_ENV=production`@
# Create an environment variable to represent *{color:#00e}Blue Sun*'s home directory (this directory should exist and be owned by the user that your app server runs as):
## @`export BLUESUN_HOME=/path/to/bluesun/home`@
# Start your java app server. This varies by app server.
# Solr should already be running at this point.
# Deploy your newly created WAR file (should be "bluesun.war" under the *{color:#00e}Blue Sun* source directory). This varies by java app server.
# Hit your app server's URL with the context of /bluesun/. (Usually something like "http://servername:8080/bluesun/")

*This process may change as development continues.*

h2. Project Status

Currently, *{color:#00e}Blue Sun* does does the following:
* Allows uploading and downloading torrents (.torrent files)
* Full-text search for torrent name and description through Solr
* Looks pretty

As you can see, I still have a long way to go.
